Ensuring Compliance with Azure Policies
Introduction
In this lab, you will assume the role of an Azure security engineer. A common task asked of the Azure security engineer is to ensure compliance of Azure resources. In this hands-on lab, we will assign two Azure policies. Then, we will deploy a non-compliant resource and observe the results of the policy assigned.

Solution
Log in to the Azure portal using the credentials provided on the lab instructions page. During the lab, make sure you provision resources using the same location as your lab-provided resource group.

Assign Azure Policies
Create a Policy to Block Deployment of Resource Groups without a Cost Allocation Tag
From the Azure portal, in the search. bar type and select Policy.
On the left menu under Authoring, select Assignments.
Click Assign policy.
Click on the Scope bubble (will contain the words Px-Real Hands-On Labs) and in the side menu that opens select your resource group.
Click Select.
Next to Policy definition, click the ellipsis (...).
In Search, type Require a tag on and select Require a tag on resource groups.
Click Add.
At the top, select the Parameters tab.
In Tag Name, type Cost Allocation and click Next.
Select the Non-compliance message tab, and type Resource groups must have a cost allocation tag for financial reporting and chargeback.
Click Review + create.
Click Create.
Create a Policy for Resources to Automatically Inherit the Cost Allocation Tag from the Parent Resource Group
Click Assign policy.
Next to Scope, click the ellipsis (...) and select your resource group.
Click Select.
Next to Policy definition, click the ellipsis (...).
In Search, type Inherit a tag from the resource group, and select Inherit a tag from the resource group if missing.
Click Add.
Select the Parameters tab.
In Tag Name, type Cost Allocation and then select the Remediation tab.
On the Remediation tab, check the box for Create a Managed Identity.
For Type of Managed Identity, select User assigned managed identity.
Click the ellipsis next to Scope, and select the current Subscription and your resource group in the panel on the right.
Click Select.
Under Existing user assigned identities, select the displayed option.
Click Review + create.
Click Create.
Note: You can ignore any error messages at this point and continue the lab. And note that your policy assignments may not show up in the Azure portal.

Create and Update Resources
Create a Cost Allocation Tag for the Resource Group
At the top left, click Home.
Select Resource groups and click the resource group to open it.
On the left menu, select Tags.
Set the following values:
Name: Cost Allocation
Value: IT
Click Apply.
Create a Virtual Network without a Cost Allocation Tag
On the left menu, select the Overview option to navigate back to the resource group. Note the Location of your resources.
Click Create.
In the search bar, type and select Virtual network.
Click Create > Virtual network.
For Name, type PolicyVnet2. For Region, select the same location as your lab's resource group.
Click Review + create.
Click Create.
Observe the Results of Policy Assignment
Verify Policy Behavior
Navigate back to the resource group. (A link for easy navigation is displayed under Your deployment is complete.)
Select PolicyVnet1 to open the virtual network.
On the left menu, select Tags. Note that PolicyVnet1 does not have a Cost Allocation tag because it was created before the new policy was assigned.
Navigate back to the resource group.
Select PolicyVnet2.
Select Tags. Note that PolicyVnet2 has automatically inherited the Cost Allocation tag from the parent resource group.
Remediate Existing Resources
Create a Remediation Task
From the main navigation, search for and select Policy.
On the left menu, select Remediation.
Click the ellipsis next to Scope, and select the resource group.
Click Select.
In the filter search bar type and select Inherit a tag from the resource group if missing.
Ensure the Scope is set to the resource group.
Note: You should see the two existing resources listed at the bottom of the page. If they are not there, select the option to Re-evaluate resource compliance before remediating. Be aware that this option will take some time to complete, so don't select this option unless no resources are listed.

Click Remediate. Wait a few minutes for the remediation task to complete.
View the Results
Once it is complete, at the top, click Home.
Select PolicyVnet1 from the Resources list.
On the left menu, select Tags.
Observe that the remediation task has inherited the Cost Allocation tag from the resource group.
Conclusion
